---
title: "Two Days Until Belize"
date: 2017-01-13
categories:
  - Wildlife Work
  - Belize
tags:
  - Wildlife
  - Belize
  - Wildcats
  - Mountain Pine Ridge
---

These two months home have flown by. I leave for Belize on Sunday!

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wildlife-Work-Photos/two1.jpg" alt="waterfall in the belizian jungle" %}

I would like to thank everyone who donated to my campaign, supported my shop, and ordered custom jewelry from me. Thank you for helping me take part of this amazing opportunity!

http://www.gofundme.com/wild-cat-research-field-assistant

Also, shoutout to Crate & Barrel – I loved working there as a seasonal hire this holiday with wonderful coworkers! I hope to see you all soon.

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wildlife-Work-Photos/two2.webp" alt="hiking pants, a shirt, and water bottle" caption="Gear haul from Goodwill" %}

I was so lucky that in this short time home I was able to see family and friends during Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years Eve, work for a little bit, visit Lancaster, PA/my alma mater, and prepare for my next adventure! I could not be happier with where I am right now, and where I will go. I am so excited to learn, experience, discover, and see where this opportunity will lead!

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wildlife-Work-Photos/two3.webp" alt="amber and 4 of her cousins on her mom's side" %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wildlife-Work-Photos/two2.webp" alt="amber, her grandma, and many cousins on her dad's side" caption="So many cousins!" %}

xoxo, Amber