---
title: "Ayungon: My New Home"
date: 2015-11-01
categories:
  - Peace Corps Philippines
  - Peace Corps Service
tags:
  - Peace Corps Philippines
---

On September 17th, 2015 we swore in as official Peace Corps Volunteers at the US Embassy in Manila!

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon1.webp" alt="group of peace corps volunteers and filipino teachers all dressed up in the american embassy" caption="Sabang Crew" %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon2.webp" alt="Amber and her new supervisor, edgar" caption="With my awesome new supervisor, Edgar!" %}

The next morning, all PCVs left for their sites. Seeing everybody leave was hard, but we all knew we would see each other soon. Edgar and I, along with the other Negros Oriental PCVs, flew to Dumaguete. Then we drove north, to Ayungon, my new home.

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon3.png" alt="map of the philippines. arrows from manila, to dumagette, to ayungon" caption="Manila to Ayungon" %}

Since arriving in Ayungon, I’ve been out of the area almost as much as I’ve been in it. During my first week at work, I was sent to Dumaguete City for a 4-day training on Marine Mammal and Turtle Rescue and Response. The training was full of information and I learned so much from the amazing speakers, Doc AA, Doc Ari and Teri. There were lectures on marine biodiversity, Tanon Strait ecosystems, and rescue and response for cetaceans (dolphins and whales) and marine turtle stranding.

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon4.webp" alt="Amber and two others measure an inflatable dolphin with tape markings on it. Two people hold two sticks with a measuring tape in between" caption="Final exam. Dolphin stranding exercise. Taking measurements on a Code 2 dolphin, freshly dead, single stranding." %}

I work in the DA office – Department of Agriculture in the next barangay. I walk or bike to work everyday. Edgar is my supervisor, and Marju and Sorayno are my counterparts! I could not have asked for more fantastic coworkers. During my time here, I’ve been assisting with BoatR (fisherfolk boat registration), editing documents, participating in the Dumaguete Agri-fest (as a dancer, who would’ve known), meeting lots of people, exploring the area, and getting to know Ayungon and all the wonderful people in it.

{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon5.webp" alt="an older man stands proudly behind his blue fishing boat on a rocky shore" caption="BoatR" %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon6.png" alt="a giant yellow fish and a group of dancers on stage" caption="Ayungon Pride dance at the Buglasan Agri-Fest! With Louie the butterfly fish!" %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon7.webp" alt="chicks eating feed" caption="Visiting Edgar's farm in the mountains" %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon8.webp" alt="looking out from a concrete fishing lookout over the ocean" caption="Iniban Marine Sanctuary. Selected in the top 12 marine sanctuaries in the Philippines! So proud." %}
{% include figure image_path="../assets/images/Wordpress-Blog-Photos/ayungon9.jpg" alt="a dozen college students smile proudly at the top of a mountain after a long hike from the coastline" caption="Our Halloween hike to Mt. Quisaw, the highest peak in Ayungon! We left at 5am and completed the 6-hour hike RIGHT before a downpour! Getting to the top was a wonderful feeling. Bukid Barkarda!" %}

I’m having a wonderful time here, and I loving the language, Visaya. There are many ups and downs, as I ride this Peace Corps roller coaster, but I learn something new everyday. Mosabay lang ko sa agos. I just go with the flow.

This week (Nov. 2-7), I will be in Cebu with Marju for a training on Alternative Livelihoods for fisherfolk. After this training, I will be the designated person for Alternative Livelihood Projects for Ayungon until the LGU (local governmental unit) hires somebody to fill this position long term. When that happens, I will transfer my knowledge and skills gained from trainings that will span my two years here, to this employee so these projects will remain sustainable, and continue after I leave.

Next week will be the first time celebrating my birthday in another country. Lots of firsts here.

I’ve always been drawn to metaphors relating to seeds. For Peace Corps, a large part of accepting a position as a volunteer involves assisting or setting up projects/organizations/events you may never see completed. It is just a reality that comes with the job. We are planting and caring for seeds that we may never see grow. This just means we need to put that much more patience, love, and time into the process of nurturing this seed.

Send me a message with your address. I love sending postcards! If you feel inclined to send me mail, here is my address:

Amber Wong
c/o Engr. Edgar L. Martinez
Municipal Planning & Development Office
LGU Ayungon, Negros Oriental
Philippines

Happy November!

-Amber